feat(config)!: experimental flags (#28187)
renovatebot/renovate: docs/usage/self-hosted-configuration.md

Default execution timeout in minutes for child processes Renovate creates.
If this option is not set, Renovate will fallback to 15 minutes.

## experimentalFlags

> The `experimentalFlags` configuration option helps you manage experimental settings within Renovate.

Author: ```suggestion
The `experimentalFlags` configuration option helps you manage some of the experimental settings within Renovate.
```

Default execution timeout in minutes for child processes Renovate creates.
If this option is not set, Renovate will fallback to 15 minutes.

## experimentalFlags

> The `experimentalFlags` configuration option streamlines managing experimental settings within Renovate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `experimentalFlags` configuration option helps you manage experimental settings within Renovate.
```

> ```js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```javascript
```

Let's spell this out in full.

module.exports = {

>   experimentalFlags: ['dockerMaxPages=10'],

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  experimentalFlags: {
    dockerMaxPages: 10
  },
```
Is there a reason why we have a different way for defining experimentalFlags? 

From a users perspective this would add additional friction.

Author: Rhys suggested to keep it the current way: https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/issues/27879#issuecomment-2002943040

Reviewer 2: I would prefer to keep this consistent with the rest of the configuration system. IMO this would be a better UX and we can reuse more code.

@rarkins @viceice WDYT?

Reviewer: We should be consistent. It's difficult enough to configure Renovate as is. Having exceptions is harder to think about and to maintain.

Reviewer 3: I don't like this suggestion though. Would prefer to put this feature on hold if we don't have consensus to make it an array of strings

Reviewer 4: I like the object style because we don't need to parse the strings 🤷‍♂️

Reviewer 3: How many are non Boolean?

Reviewer 4: 4 with values and only one boolean

Author: In total there are 12 non boolean, 4 of which are converted in this PR.

Reviewer 3: Can you list them?

Author: |name|type|
| --------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `RENOVATE_CACHE_NPM_MINUTES`                        | integer                                   |
| `RENOVATE_USER_AGENT`                               | string                                    |
| `RENOVATE_X_AUTODISCOVER_REPO_ORDER`                | string, [asc, desc]                       |
| `RENOVATE_X_AUTODISCOVER_REPO_SORT`                 | string, [alpha, created, updated,size,id] |
| `RENOVATE_X_DOCKER_MAX_PAGES`                       | integer                                   |
| `RENOVATE_X_GITLAB_AUTO_MERGEABLE_CHECK_ATTEMPS`    | integer                                   |
| `RENOVATE_X_GITLAB_BRANCH_STATUS_DELAY`             | integer                                   |
| `RENOVATE_X_GITLAB_MERGE_REQUEST_DELAY`             | integer                                   |
| `RENOVATE_X_MERGE_CONFIDENCE_API_BASE_URL`          | string                                    |
| `RENOVATE_X_MERGE_CONFIDENCE_SUPPORTED_DATASOURCES` | string array                              |
| `RENOVATE_X_PLATFORM_VERSION`                       | string                                    |
| `RENOVATE_X_S3_ENDPOINT`                            | string                                    |

Reviewer 3: @nabeelsaabna how many of these do you think should be converted to real options now for your needs?

Reviewer 3: @viceice how about the Gitea autodiscover ones? We could either:
- Promote to regular config options, or
- Always use a default value, have an experimental flag to swap it (would not support 5 options for repo sort but are they really necessary?)

Reviewer 3: @viceice I think you also added `RENOVATE_X_PLATFORM_VERSION` for GitLab about 3 years ago and @RahulGautamSingh added or modified it for Bitbucket Server recently. Is the only point to "save an API call"? I would prefer either:
- Drop this capability, or
- If the only purpose is to say "we're on a latest enough version" then let that be a flag, or
- After 3 years it shouldn't be experimental?

Reviewer 4: > @viceice how about the Gitea autodiscover ones? We could either:
> 
> * Promote to regular config options, or
> * Always use a default value, have an experimental flag to swap it (would not support 5 options for repo sort but are they really necessary?)

I think we can promote them to regular options.

> @viceice I think you also added `RENOVATE_X_PLATFORM_VERSION` for GitLab about 3 years ago and @RahulGautamSingh added or modified it for Bitbucket Server recently. Is the only point to "save an API call"? I would prefer either:
> 
> * Drop this capability, or
> * If the only purpose is to say "we're on a latest enough version" then let that be a flag, or
> * After 3 years it shouldn't be experimental?

We should make those to regular options too.

Reviewer 3: So what if we change this PR to only migrate boolean options (where the presence of the flag means "true") so that it's a simple list of strings? I want this to be very easy to configure in env and/or cli

Reviewer 4: 🤷‍♂️

Reviewer 3: OK. @RahulGautamSingh please simplify this by having boolean flags only (and no =false, if any exist)

};
```

> Each setting can be specified in the format`flagName=value`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each setting can be specified in the format `flagName=value`.
```

> Each setting can be specified in the format `flagName=value`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each setting must be formatted like this: `flagName=value`.
```

Default execution timeout in minutes for child processes Renovate creates.
If this option is not set, Renovate will fallback to 15 minutes.

## experimentalFlags

> The `experimentalFlags` configuration option is a new feature designed to streamline the management of experimental settings within Renovate. This option replaces the use of environment variables prefixed with `RENOVATE_X_`, providing a more structured and manageable approach.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `experimentalFlags` configuration option streamlines managing experimental settings within Renovate.
This option replaces the use of environment variables (prefixed with `RENOVATE_X_`), providing a more structured and manageable approach.
```

> Overview:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Old Approach: Previously, users had to set experimental environment variables like `RENOVATE_X_DOCKER_MAX_PAGES`, and others.

> New Approach: With `experimentalFlags`, users can specify experimental settings directly within the configuration file, enhancing clarity and ease of maintenance.

Reviewer 3: No need for this - the v38 release notes can document this, and then it's done. We don't want to include this in docs for any longer

```js
module.exports = {
  experimentalFlags: ['dockerMaxPages=10'],
};
```

Each setting can be specified in the two formats available `flagName` or `flagName=value`.

> Please also see [Self-Hosted Experimental Flags](./self-hosted-experimental.md) for the full list of flags supported by Renovate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read [Self-Hosted Experimental Flags](./self-hosted-experimental.md) for the full list of flags supported by Renovate.
```

- `<unset>` If unset, no report will be provided, though the debug logs will still have partial information of the report
- `logging` The report will be printed as part of the log messages on `INFO` level
- `file` The report will be written to a path provided by [`reportPath`](#reportpath)

> - `s3` The report is pushed to an S3 bucket defined by [`reportPath`](#reportpath). This option reuses [`RENOVATE_X_S3_ENDPOINT`](./self-hosted-experimental.md#renovatexs3endpoint) and [`s3PathStyle`](./self-hosted-experimental-flags.md#s3pathstyle)

Reviewer 4: this will be highly confusing. some parts need to be env and one a flag.

this should be avoided.

Reviewer 3: @nabeelsaabna it would be good to make these proper config options for v38

Reviewer 5: from the ones changed in this PR i only see one that we use `RENOVATE_X_EXEC_GPID_HANDLE`

Reviewer 5: actually two:
```
RENOVATE_X_DOCKER_HUB_TAGS -> dockerHubTags
RENOVATE_X_EXEC_GPID_HANDLE -> execGpidHandle
```
its good to have a summary at the end in the PR body
